{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 GillSans;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;\f4\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f5\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPSMT;
\f6\fmodern\fcharset0 CourierNewPS-ItalicMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28500\viewh18940\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs54 \cf0 Goal:\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\ql\qnatural

\b0\fs42 \cf0 Build a Bear population over 150 years, starting from bear cubs named Adam, Eve, and Mary.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa280\ql\qnatural

\b\fs54 \cf0 Rules:\
\'a0
\f1\b0\fs42 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
- Bears live for an average of 35 years (1 sigma = 5 years)
\f0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \'a0
\f1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
- Bears procreate starting at 5 years old until death (assume no gestation period). They produce no more than 1 cub every five years.
\f0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\ql\qnatural

\f1 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
- No Bear can procreate with another Bear that has the same mother and father and must procreate with other Bears that are within 10 years of their own age and of the opposite sex.\'a0
\f0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\'a0
\f1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
- Male and Female cubs are equality likely: P(male) = 1 - P(female) = 0.5
\f2\fs68 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs42 \cf0 \'a0
\f1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
- No new cubs can be named the same as Bears that are currently alive in the population
\f3 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\f1\b \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Questions:
\f3 \uc0\u8232 
\f0\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f4\fs38 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
a. On average, how many Bears are born in the first 100 years? How many Bears are alive at the end of 150 years?
\f2\fs70 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \

\f4\fs38 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
b. What must be the minimum value of 
\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
P(male)
\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 such that the population does not die out in 150 years?
\f2\fs70 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \

\f4\fs38 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
c. Build and use a plotting routine to show the genealogy tree of a given Bear. Show all Bears at the same generation and earlier who are directly related.
\f3 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 
\f4\b\fs42 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Hints:
\f3 \uc0\u8232 
\f2\b0\fs70 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ql\qnatural

\f1\fs42 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
- use 
\f5 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
numpy.random
\f1 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 to satisfy your random needs
\f2\fs82 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \

\f1\fs42 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
- use a webservice to build a name generating function : {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.richyli.com/randomname/"}}{\fldrslt http://www.richyli.com/randomname/}}
\f2\fs82 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \

\f1\fs42 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
- play around with 
\f6\i \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
networkx
\f1\i0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 to help you build a genealogy tree
\f2\fs82 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
}